parley
======
The [Parley](https://parley.co) client and server code lives here.
View the source of this document [here](https://github.com/blackchair/parley/raw/master/README.md)

Purpose
-------
Parley is an email service that is intended to make secure email communications more accessible to end-users without requiring a technical background. The Parley client interoperates with existing end-to-end encrypted email systems, and aims to provide a level of security that is virtually unbreakable (nobody, not even the NSA, should be able to read mail that is sent by the Parley client).
The Parley server code provides account and key management for calls made by the parley server.

Getting Started
---------------
When the client runs for the first time, it will most likely require that some software dependancies be installed. This software is called [Gnu Privacy Guard](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Privacy_Guard) or GPG for short and is used for cryptographic functions such as generating keys and decrypting/encrypting messages. It is based on [PGP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy). This process will sometimes make the system appear to hang. For more information, [Overview of the Cryptosystem](see the Cryptographic overview below). 
Once GPG is installed, you can provide an email address that is registered with the parley server (see http://parley.co) to get started. You will also be asked for a password to be used the Parley service as well as the name that should appear on your messages.
If you have used a keyserver before to manage your identity with other PGP-based services, you can import that key to use it with Parley as well. Otherwise, generate a new key to continue. This process also takes a moment.
At this point, your inbox will be loaded. The previous steps for registration and key generation will not be required for subsequent logins

Overview of the Cryptosystem
----------------------------
Parley utilizes the same underlying architecture as PGP to provide confidentiality and integrity for messages sent using the client. You can read more about it [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy).
When a message is sent:
    the sender's client looks up the recipient's public key from the parley keyserver
    the sender's client also generates a random key
    the sender's client encrypts the message using a randomly generated key
    the sender's client encrypts the aforementioned random key with the recipient's public key
    the sender's client sends both to the recipient

When a message is recieved:
    the recipient's client decrypts the random key (that was generated by the sender) using his private key
    the recipient's client uses the decrypted random key to decrypt the message itself

